# CS435TermProject

Chicago was once a pillar of prosperity and trade where companies housed their headquarters, where business partners formed coalitions, and where impactful business decisions were made. Today, it is still a major capital for trade, and some areas are very prosperous. Other sectors are rampant with crime, murder, theft, break-ins, and kidnappings. The crimes within some Chicago districts are so high that officers often don’t know whether they will return home that day to their families. Although there are countless factors contributing to the growing crime rate and law enforcement procedures, crimes are overwhelmingly complex and have to do with politics, state, and local government actions. The question arises how has crime changed over the years? Is it possible to predict where or when a crime will be committed? Which areas of the city have evolved over this time span?

The goal of this project is to tackle how we can use data from these crimes to potentially stop them from becoming so frequent. It will also provide data summarizations such as the location and frequency of the crimes, and the nature of the crimes which can ultimately help mitigate crimes and help law enforcement agencies pinpoint where these crimes are more likely to occur, and which districts should have a higher abundance of police officers. This information can not only save the lives of citizens but also police officers who risk their lives every day to better their communities. It also ensures that these criminals have a higher likelihood of being caught since so many crimes in these districts go unsolved. The dataset contains attributes such as date, coordinates of the incident, district, the nature of the crime, etc. We will attempt to use these attributes to generate summarizations that will assist in the fight against crime as well as assist in the city’s economic future. 

In order to solve this problem and help aid law enforcement agencies in Chicago, we will aim to analyze this dataset and run a variety of different processing techniques and models in order to interpret results and answer the questions mentioned above. This dataset is large and contains various attributes, so it is complex to analyze through normal methods. In order to process this data effectively and efficiently, we will use MapReduce to process the data and provide numerical summarizations such as the accuracy rates of prediction through Random Forests, Neural Networks, and k-means Clustering. Other numerical summarizations will include the proportions of arrests made by the crimes committed, whether the trends in crimes have increased over the years, and if yes, what crimes are more likely to be committed. 
